>> Brian Holt: Let's do coverage.
We were just talking
about 100% test coverage.
I'm going to show you how to
measure that with vTest now.
We are gonna install one more thing,
NPM install D at VTest slash
coverage dash v8 2.1.3.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: I showed
you how to do this,
I'm gonna show you how to do with V8.
I think it's the better library, but
if you are bent on using Istanbul.
>> Brian Holt: You can do that as,
well and
that will get the Istanbul one as well.
If it doesn't make any difference to you,
just to stick with VA Istanbul has,
like the been the gold standard for
longer than my career, right?
It's been the test coverage tool forever,
but V8 is the new hotness.
All right, so I want you to go to
your V config really quick and.` And
inside of, I think it just says coverage.
So we're gonna do coverage here.
Is it inside of test, I can't tell.
Yeah, it's inside of test.
My notes didn't say that.
But coverage, and then we're gonna do
a reporter, and I just have in here text.
I think I have all of them, but
you can choose just some of them.
JSON and HTML and this will generate all
of the tests for your coverage tools.
You probably don't need all of them,
we'll look at the HTML one, but
the JSON one can be ingested
into your dashboards or
something like that,
if you want to do that.
Okay, that's really it,
which is kind of cool to set this up.
The only thing we got to go do
now is in our package.json,
instead of our scripts,
we're gonna create one called coverage.
So, I'll just put this down at the bottom,
coverage,
and all you're gonna do is vtest--
coverage, and it will handle the rest.
If you've never had to set up
coverage by hand in like, I don't,
like eight years ago.
I just want you to know that
this used to suck [LAUGH] a lot,
to instrument everything correctly,
to run test coverage.
And the fact that VTest just does it for
you is just great.
>> Brian Holt: MPM, run, test: or
no, I call the coverage.
MPM run Coverage, like that.
It's gonna run our entire testing suite,
and then we get this really cool report
here in our command line, of what files
are covered, what files aren't covered.
And this is cool that we get
this directly into our CLI, but
we can actually do something
that's even cooler.
I'm gonna go to my browser and
I'm gonna do Command open, and
I'm gonna be in Padre Genos here,
you get this coverage directory,
and just open this index.HTML
inside of the coverage directory.
Now, we get a full on web page that's
just Scribes all of the test coverage.
When I say coverage, I'm just saying what
files are tested and what files are not,
and what lines are tested and
what lines are not.
So let's look at our source directory,
we can see that pizza.jsx,
every line was covered.
You can see some of them got run twice,
some of them got run once.
Cool, let's go look at cart.
You can see that all of these
lines were run once, but
you can see it actually never got here.
Why is that?
Well, we gave it an empty cart.
We never gave it a full cart, right?
So this for loop never gets run.
This cart.map never gets run because
it never had anything in the cart.
Or use pizza the day, right?
Some of these got run twice,
this got run four times.
That's kind of cool, right?
And you can see, for example,
header never tested.
Same with sources like post contact,
looks like this got run, but
we never hit the error case, right?
So we don't know if it actually
does the correct error.
>> Brian Holt: So you can see here
we have 16% of statements under 17%,
45% of branches, 33% of functions.
Obviously, this is not a well
tested code base, right?
I'm not purporting that it is.
But I'm also gonna say that I don't I
think 100% test coverage is a worthy goal.
I think it's a waste of time.
Most of the time you end up writing
tests that you don't care about.
And tests that you don't care about
are worse than tests that don't exist.
It's pretty cool stuff, though, right?
This all just gets
generated automatically.
I think it's cool.